API.md, before:

# Unnamed Messaging API

The messaging API allows you to integrate one-to-one and one-to-many group
messaging into your application with little development effort. It also
gives email-based commenting (like Facebook Comments) for free.

## Accessing the API

The base API adheres to REST principles and accepts and returns JSON.
Most of the messaging functionality can also be accessed by including
a JavaScript snippet on any page.

## Mapping User Accounts

The API has no knowledge of your users nor does it need to. However, to
enable sending comment notifications via email and to allow replies, you
will need to supply the following data for users:

    * user id
    * user display name
    * email address

Note that `user id` is specific to your app. It is recommened that you use
your internal database id or other primary key for the user. The API treats
`user id`s as unique per application.

### Listing Users

    GET /users

Returns:

    {
      count: 2,
      users: ["1", "2"]
    }

### Creating/Updating a User

    PUT /users/1
    {
      name: "Amir",
      email: "amir@example.com"
    }

### Getting a User

    GET /users/1

Returns:

    {
      name: "Amir",
      email: "amir@example.com"
    }

### Removing a User

    DELETE /users/1

## Topics

A topic is a list of messages identified by a key. The key can be any
string, and is often an id or a URL. Namespacing topic keys is up to
the application.

### Creating/Modifying a Topic

You don't explicitly need to create a topic, but creating one allows you
to customize the defaults:

    PUT /topics/foo
    {
        email_notifications: true,
        email_replies: true,
        save_deleted_messages: false
    }

The above will enable email notifications and replies. If you try to post
a message into this topic and a `user id` doesn't have an email address
associated with it, the request will fail.

### Listing Topics

    GET /topics

Returns:

    {
      count: 1,
      topics: [
        {id: "foo", create_date: "...", update_date: "...", participants: 2}
      ]
    }

### Checking if a Topic Exists

    HEAD /topics/foo

## Messages

Messages can be posted into any topic and topics don't need to be created
ahead of time.

### Listing Messages in a Topic

    GET /topics/foo

Returns:

    {
      create_date: "...",
      update_date: "...",
      participants: 2,
      count: 2,
      messages: [
        {id: "m1", from: 1, date: "...", text: "test message."},
        {id: "m2", from: 2, date: "...", text: "worked!", in_reply_to: "m1"}
      ]
    }

If the `deleted=true` query parameter is used and if the topic has been
configured to save deleted messages, they will appear in the results. Any
deleted message will have a `deleted` key set to the date of deletion.
Normal messages will have no `deleted` key.

### Listing Message Details

    GET /topics/foo/m1

Returns:

    {
      from: 1,
      date: "...",
      text: "test message."
    }

### Posting a Message

If the specified topic id doesn't exist, a new one will be created with
defaults taken from your account.

    POST /topics/foo
    {
      from: 1,
      text: "why was my message removed?"
    }

### Checking if a Message Exists

    HEAD /topics/foo/m1

### Removing a Message

    DELETE /topics/foo/m1

## HTTP Response Codes

The API will emit standard HTTP response codes in REST fashion.

## REST Fallback for Legacy Clients

To accommodate older HTTP clients that are only able to make GET and POST
requests, include either an `X-HTTP-Method-Override` HTTP header or a
`_method` query string parameter specifying the actual method to be used.

In the latter case, a DELETE request would look like:

    GET /topics/foo/m1?_method=DELETE

And a PUT request would look like:

    POST /topics/foo?_method=PUT
    {
      ...
    }

Commit message:

Add PUT to message with user-specified id.

API.md, after:

# Unnamed Messaging API

The messaging API allows you to integrate one-to-one and one-to-many group
messaging into your application with little development effort. It also
gives email-based commenting (like Facebook Comments) for free.

## Accessing the API

The base API adheres to REST principles and accepts and returns JSON.
Most of the messaging functionality can also be accessed by including
a JavaScript snippet on any page.

## Mapping User Accounts

The API has no knowledge of your users nor does it need to. However, to
enable sending comment notifications via email and to allow replies, you
will need to supply the following data for users:

    * user id
    * user display name
    * email address

Note that `user id` is specific to your app. It is recommened that you use
your internal database id or other primary key for the user. The API treats
`user id`s as unique per application.

### Listing Users

    GET /users

Returns:

    {
      count: 2,
      users: ["1", "2"]
    }

### Creating/Updating a User

    PUT /users/1
    {
      name: "Amir",
      email: "amir@example.com"
    }

### Getting a User

    GET /users/1

Returns:

    {
      name: "Amir",
      email: "amir@example.com"
    }

### Removing a User

    DELETE /users/1

## Topics

A topic is a list of messages identified by a key. The key can be any
string, and is often an id or a URL. Namespacing topic keys is up to
the application.

### Creating/Modifying a Topic

You don't explicitly need to create a topic, but creating one allows you
to customize the defaults:

    PUT /topics/foo
    {
        email_notifications: true,
        email_replies: true,
        save_deleted_messages: false
    }

The above will enable email notifications and replies. If you try to post
a message into this topic and a `user id` doesn't have an email address
associated with it, the request will fail.

### Listing Topics

    GET /topics

Returns:

    {
      count: 1,
      topics: [
        {id: "foo", create_date: "...", update_date: "...", participants: 2}
      ]
    }

### Checking if a Topic Exists

    HEAD /topics/foo

## Messages

Messages can be posted into any topic and topics don't need to be created
ahead of time.

### Listing Messages in a Topic

    GET /topics/foo

Returns:

    {
      create_date: "...",
      update_date: "...",
      participants: 2,
      count: 2,
      messages: [
        {id: "m1", from: 1, date: "...", text: "test message."},
        {id: "m2", from: 2, date: "...", text: "worked!", in_reply_to: "m1"}
      ]
    }

If the `deleted=true` query parameter is used and if the topic has been
configured to save deleted messages, they will appear in the results. Any
deleted message will have a `deleted` key set to the date of deletion.
Normal messages will have no `deleted` key.

### Listing Message Details

    GET /topics/foo/m1

Returns:

    {
      from: 1,
      date: "...",
      text: "test message."
    }

### Posting a Message

If the specified topic id doesn't exist, a new one will be created with
defaults taken from your account.

    POST /topics/foo
    {
      from: 1,
      text: "why was my message removed?"
    }

Note that the message id will be generated by the API. If you want to
specify your own message id, use the PUT verb:

    PUT /topics/foo/myId1
    {
      from: 1,
      text: "why was my message removed?"
    }

In this case, you will be responsible for ensuring uniqueness of your ids
since a PUT to an existing message will overwrite it.

### Checking if a Message Exists

    HEAD /topics/foo/m1

### Removing a Message

    DELETE /topics/foo/m1

## HTTP Response Codes

The API will emit standard HTTP response codes in REST fashion.

## REST Fallback for Legacy Clients

To accommodate older HTTP clients that are only able to make GET and POST
requests, include either an `X-HTTP-Method-Override` HTTP header or a
`_method` query string parameter specifying the actual method to be used.

In the latter case, a DELETE request would look like:

    GET /topics/foo/m1?_method=DELETE

And a PUT request would look like:

    POST /topics/foo?_method=PUT
    {
      ...
    }
